some 54 of the more than 200 hostages
held captive by Hamas are from Thailand
Thailand provides almost all the foreign
Farm labor in Israel as part of a 2012
agreement with the Israeli government
the Thai hostages taken by Hamas were
working in farms near the Gaza
Strip scenes of Devastation at the kabut
berry in southern Israel after the
terror attack by Hamas gunmen killed
more than 100 people here among them
many Thai migrant workers
ties are the largest single group of
foreign dead and missing after the
massacre with 24 confirmed killed and 21
unaccounted for and a quarter of the
more than 200 hostages held by Hamas in
Gaza are Tha taant organized evacuation
flights for survivors who tell of a
desperate struggle to stay
alive I hid in a small room with 11
other people we could hardly breathe we
took turns breathing through a small
hole then three to four Hamas guys came
back and they tried to unlock the door
but there were two
locks they tried to open the top one but
we all helped to hold on to the bottom
lock they started shooting through the
door but it was too
thick then Israeli soldiers arrived to
help thailam provides almost all the
foreign Farm labor in Israel about
30,000 ties work in the country's
vegetable fields and dairy
farms I talk this over with my family I
won't return I'll settle down at home a
lot of things are still bad my mental
health is still
bad around 5,000 ties were working in
the area worst affected by the violence
one of the hardest hit agricultural
areas was at the near o kabut where ties
were among the hundred people killed or
or
kidnapped Israeli volunteers have had to
step in to keep the milk supply
going most of the staff of the dairy
farm were Thailand and they were
Massacre um just comes to sh like the
Hamas terrorist that came in they killed
everyone there are fears that if ties
choose to stay away long term it could
have a devastating impact on the Israeli
economy for many from Thailand staying
away is not really an option often
they'd have to borrow tens of thousands
of dollars to go to Israel these ties
may have escaped the gunmen but now it's
a tough choice between staying safe and
securing their
livelihoods and joining me now for more
context is punat Guna she's an assistant
professor of anthropology at the nakon
PanAm University in eastern Thailand
Professor Guna how has news of Thai
casualties in the Hamas terror attack
been received in Thailand
um first of all since um early October
this month right um as the
northeastern villagers all the Thai
citizens we are so sorry to hear about
this news is a bad news actually um I
think we were so shocked about the
incident uh as I heard that many time
migrant workers es especially from my
hometown the cap province in the
northeast of Thailand they have you know
bad lucks and they will host hostage and
some of them are are lucky to come back
to their countries but a lot of the
population still uh in the uncertain
condition we we are still hope that they
are will be
free right
soon how how important is working in
Israel for Thai Farm
Workers you know you have to understand
that living and working in the
northeastern region of Thailand we have
poor condition we don't have much
opportunities to make a decision uh
living condition is so difficult even to
do Agri culture even to be as a farmer
we have uh been neglect by the Tha State
and don't talk about the social welfare
we are very poor with some of those
resources that's why e economic reason
Drive the migrant workers to go far away
from the countries and decide to go to
the Middle East to find another job to
find a new life and send the money back
to that countries which is
Thailand do you think that following
this attack this terror attack by Hamas
Thai workers will reconsider if they
should go and work in Israel given the
dangers that are U that are apparent
over
there you know it's a good question I've
been asking and I if I have a chance to
meet up with all the timean workers who
just back from the Middle East
especially from Israel you know some of
them can be divided into two groups the
first one who have encounter with the
negative incidents they would not decide
to go back to Israel but for those who
still um seek for uh New Life who still
want to get a high income to work in the
Middle East they still want to go back
to
Israel you know as we speak there's at
least 54 tie workers who have been held
captive by Hamas what is the Tie
government doing to get them
back I think the Tha government led by
prime minister set to and all the
cabinet I think they try so hard to try
so many channels so many ways to
negotiate uh as uh I think they try to
use two different levels of neot
negotiation the first one is formal
diplomatic negotiation and the second
one which is the um uh prime minister
and the minister of the Foreign Affairs
just uh uh spoke out to the media to the
Thai Medias actually that the Tha
government also tried to use the
informal negotiation try to send the
representative of the Tha government
back to isra and negotiate with uh
representative of the Hamas
group right we'll leave it there uh for
the time being and hope that there is
better news for Tha migrant workers and
their families in Thailand thanks so
much for joining us today with all of
that context Mrs punat Gia bu thank you
so
much